The sinking of Titanic shocked and horrified people in both Britain and America. 
They were shocked that there were not enough lifeboats. They were shocked that so many people 
had died, and that the families of many of them were left in poverty. Nowhere was the shock 
greater than in Southampton, where many of the crew had lived. It is said that every street 
in the city had at least one family who had lost someone in the disaster. Above all,
people in Europe and the United States 100 years ago believed in technology and progress. 
They thought that modern technology and engineering could do almost anything. They were shocked to 
learn that nature could so easily destroy the biggest and most advanced ship in the world.

The story of Titanic still fascinates people today. T
he wreck of Titanic was rediscovered on the bed of
the Atlantic in 1985, and many items such as crockery and bits of luggage were brought 
to the surface and exhibited for people to see. There have been countless books and films 
about Titanic‘s first and last voyage, and theories about what really happened and who was to
blame for the sinking.

 

In Britain in the last few weeks, we have had several 
special television and radio programmes to mark the centenary of the 
disaster, and the film Titanic starring Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet – a film which
you either love or hate – has been re-released in 3D, so that the iceberg looks even more scary. 
Some people have even dressed up in Edwardian dress and gone on a special cruise to the place where 
Titanic went down. On board the cruise ship, they have enjoyed some of the food that was on the menu 
in Titanic‘s restaurant. I am sure that they had a great time, but I do not think I would have enjoyed 
he trip.

Nowfor some grammar! Look at the verb “to sink”. 
It is one of a group of English irregular verbs where the vowel
changes twice in different tenses – ‘Titanic sinks (present tense), 
Titanic sank (simple past tense) and Titanic has sunk (the imperfect or “has” tense). 
Other verbs with the same pattern are sing (I sing, I sang, I have sung) and ring (the bells ring, 
the bells rang, the bells have rung). If you can think of any more, put a comment on the website to tell us.